---
layout: course
instructor: Hartmut Schmider
institution: Centre for Advanced Computing
title: Shared-memory programming with OpenMP
date: 2018-07-31 09:00:00
room: Chernoff Hall 211
---

The “multi-core revolution” has affected virtually any computer from large SMP
machines in research centres and banks down to smart phones with dual-core
processors. To exploit the enhanced capabilities of such systems as a
programmer, it is necessary to learn the basic principles of shared-memory
parallel programming, also termed “multi-threading”. The use of multi-threading
has the potential to speed up virtually any application even on a single-core
system due to greater responsiveness and more efficient use of modern CPU's and
memory.

In this course, we offer an introduction to the OpenMP compiler directives which
enables the conversion of serial programs to parallel through the addition of
“local compilation flags” to the code. This is arguably the easiest way of
multi-threading as it combines flexibility and power with conceptual simplicity.
The course is directed at scientists and engineers who want to use
multi-threading techniques in their applications to make use of the enhanced
resources offered by shared-memory parallel computers. No prior knowledge of
parallel programming is required, but some background in the C or FORTRAN
languages is assumed. The course includes short practical lab sessions to give
participants an opportunity for some hands-on experience. These sessions will be
conducted on dedicated resources provided by us.

## Prerequisites

Basic Fortran or C/C++ programming
